.TH MANAFILES 1 "2025-02-02" "manafiles 0.6" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
manafiles \- config file and package tracking utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B manafiles
.I OPERATION
.RI [ OPTION ...]\&
.RI [ TARGET ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
manafiles is a config file and package tracking utility that tracks installed packages on a Linux system. \
It features listing and tracking of config files and packages, and the ability to install the tracked packages.

Currently, package tracking is only supported on APT and Pacman based distributions.

Invoking manafiles involves specifying an operation with any potential options and targets to operate on. \
A \fItarget\fR is usually a file name, directory or a package name. \
Targets can be provided as command line arguments. \
Additionally, if a single hyphen (-) is passed as an argument, targets will be read from stdin.

.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-file
Operate on config files. \
This operation allows you to sync config files between the system and the dotfiles directory. \
In the first case, if no file names are provided in the command line, all files will be selected. \
See File Options below.

.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-package
Operate on packages. \
This operation allows tracking installed packages and reinstalling them. \
In the first case, if no package names are provided in the command line, all packages will be selected. \
See Package Options below.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage message and exit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Output paths such as directories created, config files copied.

.SH FILE OPTIONS (APPLY TO -F)
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-add
Add selected file \fIpaths\fR to the dotfiles directory.

.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-pull
Pull every (selected) \fIfile\fR from the system to the dotfiles directory.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-push
Push every (selected) \fIfile\fR from the dotfiles directory to the system.

.SH PACKAGE OPTIONS (APPLY TO -P)
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-aur-install
Install all AUR packages of the stored list.

.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-install
Install all official packages of the stored list.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-search
Search each locally-installed package for names via a partial match. \
When including multiple search terms, all packages with names matching any of those terms are returned. \
If the \fB-s\fR option is ommited, packages names are filtered via a full match.

.SH EXAMPLES
Usage examples:

$ \fBmanafiles\fR -Fa ~/.zshrc /etc/zsh/zshenv
.br
\h'4'Add config files to the dotfiles directory

$ \fBmanafiles\fR -Pia
.br
\h'4'Install all tracked official and AUR packages

.SH AUTHOR
Riyyi
